---
layout: post
title: How Cloud Computing is Revolutionizing Cancer Research
subtitle: Leveraging the power of the cloud in oncology research
subtitle: There's lots to learn!
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [biomedicine, cloud computing, cancer research]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: Maria Fité Enrech
---

{: .box-success}
Cloud computing is transforming the way we conduct cancer research. With massive datasets and the need for rapid computation, cloud platforms like Google Cloud, AWS, and Microsoft Azure provide scalable solutions for researchers worldwide.


## The Role of Cloud Computing in Cancer Research
Cancer research requires analyzing vast amounts of genomic data. Traditionally, this process demanded significant computational power, which was both expensive and time-consuming. Cloud-based solutions now enable:
- Faster genomic sequencing
- Collaboration between global research teams
- Efficient machine learning model training for personalized treatments

### Case Study: cBioPortal
One of the most impactful tools in cancer genomics is cBioPortal, a cloud-based platform that provides interactive visualizations and integrative analysis of cancer data. Researchers can explore mutations, copy-number variations, and survival rates across thousands of patients.


## Conclusion
Cloud computing is revolutionizing cancer research by making high-performance computing accessible, affordable, and collaborative. As technology advances, we can expect even more breakthroughs in precision medicine.


## References
1. Cerami, E., Gao, J., Dogrusoz, U., et al. (2012). The cBio cancer genomics portal: An open platform for exploring multidimensional cancer genomics data. Cancer Discovery, 2(5), 401-404. [DOI:10.1158/2159-8290.CD-12-0095](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22588877/)
2. Grossman, R. L., Heath, A. P., Ferretti, V., et al. (2016). Toward a shared vision for cancer genomic data. New England Journal of Medicine, 375(12), 1109-1112. [DOI:10.1056/NEJMp1607591](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27653561/)
